add pomerium cloud run tutorial (#1397)
GoogleCloudPlatform/community: tutorials/cloud-run-with-pomerium-for-end-user-access/index.md

---
title: Cloud Run with Pomerium for end-user access
description: This guide covers how to deploy Pomerium to Cloud Run and use it to protect other endpoints via Authorization Headers.
author: desimone
tags: Cloud Run, Pomerium
date_published: 2020-08-13
---

> # Cloud Run with Pomerium for end-user access

Reviewer: I'd probably call this

# Authorizing end-users in Cloud Run with Pomerium

Reviewer 2: 👍

> This guide covers how to deploy Pomerium to Cloud Run to provide end-user auth to other endpoints. 

Reviewer: auth → authentication (or authorization)? lets make it clear.

> 

Reviewer: aside: you'll find that 80-char line wraps are more ideal during these reviews :) it's hard to comment on a particular part of a long paragraph.

[Pomerium](https://www.pomerium.com) is an open source identity-aware proxy that enables secure access to internal applications. Pomerium provides a standardized interface to add access control to applications regardless of whether the application itself has authorization or authentication baked-in. Pomerium gateways  requests and can be used in situations where you'd typically reach for a VPN.

> 

Reviewer: you can add a short paragraph like this:

> Differently the [Cloud IAP](#), Pomerium supports non-Google identity providers. You can also run Pomerium outside GCP (such as other cloud providers and on-premises), and still use it to route or authorize traffic to Google Cloud targets such as Cloud Run or Cloud Functions.

Reviewer 2: Done

## How it works

> Services on [Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run) and other Google Cloud serverless products can be restricted to only permit access with a properly signed [bearer token](https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/authenticating/service-to-service). This allows requests from other services running in GCP or elsewhere to be securely authorized despite the endpoints being public.

Reviewer: > other Google Cloud serverless products

I think only GCF works.

> Services on [Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run) and other Google Cloud serverless products can be restricted to only permit access with a properly signed [bearer token](https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/authenticating/service-to-service). This allows requests from other services running in GCP or elsewhere to be securely authorized despite the endpoints being public.

Reviewer: > access with a properly signed [bearer token]

I think this would be better as:

> access with a signed identity token (JWT)

but up 2 u

> These bearer tokens are not easily set in a browser session and must be refreshed on a regular basis, preventing them from being useful for end user authorization. Pomerium, however, can generate compatible tokens on behalf of end users and proxy the request to these services.

Reviewer: > These bearer tokens are not easily set in a browser session and must be refreshed on a regular basis, preventing them from being useful for end user authorization.

easily would be an understatement for "impossible" :)

you can be bold and say:

> These identity tokens can be generated in the browser, however browsers don't support adding these tokens to the `Authorization` header. Therefore, to authenticate end users to your Cloud Run services, you need a proxy to perform this for you.

Reviewer 2: How about this? 

```suggestion
Browsers do not support adding these identity tokens to the `Authorization` header.  Therefore, a proxy is required to authenticate end users to your Cloud Run service.  Pomerium can perform this role by generating compatible tokens on behalf of end users and then proxy their requests.
```

Reviewer 3: Based on Travis's suggestion, I added this:
"Browsers are not able to add these identity tokens to the `Authorization` header, so a proxy is required to authenticate end users to your Cloud Run service. Pomerium can perform this role by generating compatible tokens on behalf of end users and then acting as a proxy for their requests."

## Before you begin

This guide assumes you have Editor access to a Google Cloud project which can be used for isolated testing, and a DNS zone which you are also able to control. DNS does not need to be inside Google Cloud for the example to work.

## Set Up

To deploy Pomerium to Cloud Run, a special [image](https://console.cloud.google.com/gcr/images/pomerium-io/GLOBAL/pomerium) is available at `gcr.io/pomerium-io/pomerium-[version]-cloudrun`. It allows sourcing configuration from GCP Secrets Manager, and sets some defaults for Cloud Run to keep configuration minimal. We will be leveraging it in this example to store identity provider credentials. Pomerium's [authorization policy](https://www.pomerium.com/reference/#policy) contains no secrets so we can place it directly in an [ENV var](https://www.pomerium.io/reference/#configuration-settings).

[Dockerfile](https://github.com/pomerium/pomerium/blob/master/.github/Dockerfile-cloudrun) Based on [vals-entrypoint](https://github.com/pomerium/vals-entrypoint)

> The image expects a config file at `/pomerium/config.yaml`. Set `VALS_FILES=[secretref]:/pomerium/config.yaml` and any other [Pomerium Environment Variables](https://www.pomerium.io/reference/#configuration-settings) directly or with secret refs such as `ref+gcpsecrets://PROJECT/SECRET(#/key])`.

Reviewer: This paragraph is confusing a bit. It (probably) talks about using Google Cloud Secret Manager, however I cannot tell that here.

Also the intent is unclear (are we storing config files in secret manager?, if so let's say it).

## Config

Set up Pomerium's [config.yaml](https://www.pomerium.com/reference/#shared-settings) to contain your identity provider credentials and secrets (config.yaml):

```yaml
# config.yaml
authenticate_service_url: https://authn.cloudrun.pomerium.com
shared_secret: XXXXXX
cookie_secret: XXXXXX
idp_provider: "google"
idp_client_id: XXXXXX
idp_client_secret: "XXXXXX"
```

Substitute `cloudrun.pomerium.com` for your own subdomain and your e-mail domain if appropriate (policy.template.yaml):

```yaml
# policy.template.yaml
# see https://www.pomerium.com/reference/#policy
- from: https://hello.cloudrun.pomerium.com
  to: ${HELLO_URL}
  allowed_domains:
    - gmail.com
  enable_google_cloud_serverless_authentication: true

> - from: https://httpbin.cloudrun.pomerium.com

Reviewer: would be good to describe above in the doc somewhere that

> During this tutorial, we'll deploy a Pomerium proxy that allows @gmail.com users to authenticate and proxies traffic to httpbin.org.

otherwise the reader won't know what they would be reading.

Reviewer 2: Done up top.

# Set domain mappings for the protected routes and authenticate
gcloud beta run domain-mappings --platform managed --region us-central1 create --service=pomerium --domain hello.cloudrun.pomerium.com
gcloud beta run domain-mappings --platform managed --region us-central1 create --service=pomerium --domain authn.cloudrun.pomerium.com
gcloud beta run domain-mappings --platform managed --region us-central1 create --service=pomerium --domain httpbin.cloudrun.pomerium.com
```

## Results

### Overview

We should see two applications deployed. The `hello` app is our protected app, and pomerium is...Pomerium!

![Cloud Run Overview](./cloudrun-overview.png)

Notice that Pomerium allows unauthenticated access, but `hello` does not.

Here are the domain mappings set up:

![Cloud Run Domains](./cloudrun-domains.png)

### Direct Access

Let's verify we cannot access the main application directly by visiting <https://hello-direct.cloudrun.pomerium.com>

![Hello Direct Access](./hello-direct.png)

You should see a 403 error because you do not have the proper credentials.

### Authenticated Access

Now let's access via <https://hello.cloudrun.pomerium.com>

> We should get an auth flow through your IdP:

Reviewer: Identity Provider (avoid acronyms in general)

---
title: Authorizing end-users in Cloud Run with Pomerium
description: This guide covers how to deploy Pomerium to Cloud Run and use it to protect other endpoints via Authorization Headers.

> author: desimone

Author: ```suggestion
author: travisgroth
```

properly signed [identity token](https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/authenticating/service-to-service). This allows requests from other services running on
Google Cloud or elsewhere to be securely authorized despite the endpoints being public.

Browsers are not able to add these identity tokens to the `Authorization` header, so a proxy is required to authenticate end users to your Cloud Run service.
Pomerium can perform this role by generating compatible tokens on behalf of end users and then acting as a proxy for their requests.

You perform the following steps:

- Add an IAM policy delegating `roles/run.invoker` permissions to a service account.
- Run Pomerium with access to a key for the corresponding service account.
- Publish DNS records for each protected application pointing to Pomerium.
- Configure Pomerium with appropriate policy and `enable_google_cloud_serverless_authentication`.

The protected application delegates trust to a Google Cloud service account, which Pomerium runs as, and Pomerium performs user-based authorization for each
route. This turns Pomerium into a bridge between a user-centric and a service-centric authorization model.

## Setup

> To deploy Pomerium to Cloud Run, a [special image](https://console.cloud.google.com/gcr/images/pomerium-io/GLOBAL/pomerium) is available at

Reviewer: @travisgroth is this still the case? maybe we should change this as soon as Cloud Run integration is available in the main image?

Reviewer 2: The bootstrap to provide secrets from Secret Manager is not going to be in the main image for the time being.

Reviewer 2: Almost forgot - we have to publish an image for Cloud Run, as our regular image is not hosted in gcr.  Cloud Run managed seems to only allows deployments from gcr.

Reviewer: Ack. For the purposes of the tutorial it's not a bad idea to circumvent the secrets manager entirely, and store the config.yaml in env vars as well.

Reviewer 2: Since environment variables in Cloud Run are considered insecure, I'm hesitant to encourage storing IdP credentials and other sensitive values that way in broadly consumed documentation.  We added the Secret Manager wrapper specifically to avoid setting a bad example.

The builds are the same and maintained with our CI, so this isn't a second class image.  The wrapper isn't worth putting into the normal image since most of our other container users have additional options for pulling in secrets.  In Cloud Run we recommend using the Secrets Manager wrapper until there is an alternative.

Reviewer: ack. BTW you can recommend usage of https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/berglas which is a supported tool that wraps a process and has its on Secret Manager reference syntax. It retrieves secrets and sets them as env on runtime.

### Identity provider credentials and secrets in `config.yaml`

Set up Pomerium's [`config.yaml`](https://www.pomerium.com/reference/#shared-settings) to contain your identity provider credentials and secrets:

    # config.yaml
    authenticate_service_url: https://authn.cloudrun.pomerium.com
    shared_secret: XXXXXX
    cookie_secret: XXXXXX
    idp_provider: "google"
    idp_client_id: XXXXXX
    idp_client_secret: "XXXXXX"

### Subdomain and e-mail domain in `policy.template.yaml`

Substitute `cloudrun.pomerium.com` for your own subdomain and your e-mail domain if appropriate:

    # policy.template.yaml
    # see https://www.pomerium.com/reference/#policy
    - from: https://hello.cloudrun.pomerium.com
      to: ${HELLO_URL}
      allowed_domains:
        - gmail.com
      enable_google_cloud_serverless_authentication: true
    - from: https://httpbin.cloudrun.pomerium.com
      to: https://httpbin.org
      pass_identity_headers: true
      allowed_domains:
        - gmail.com

### DNS in `zonefile.txt`

Substitute `cloudrun.pomerium.com` for your own subdomain (`zonefile.txt`):

    ; zonefile.txt
    *.cloudrun.pomerium.com. 18000 IN CNAME ghs.googlehosted.com.

> Alternatively, you can set an equivalent CNAME in your DNS provider.

Reviewer: I think all the user needs to do is:

> Create a [Custom Domain Mapping](https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/mapping-custom-domains) for your `hello.cloudrun.pomerium.com` domain and update your domain’s DNS records to the records provided while creating this mapping.

I wouldn't

* give the CNAME here, sometimes (e.g. bare/non-sub domains) we actually give A/AAAA records
* explain zonefile format, most of our user base aren't DNS experts, so they wouldn't know where to put this :)

Reviewer 2: Hm.  I hadn't considered a bare domain might be used.  

We would have to provide a table of the mappings that the user is to perform; the demo relies on several.  It does make the setup much more manual, which is unfortunate.

Reviewer 2: Changed this to have a service<>name list, but also provided some commands that can easily be followed on the command line.  Thoughts?

## Deployment

Ensure that you have set a default project:

    gcloud config set default-project MYTESTPROJECT

Run the following commands to configure and deploy Pomerium:

>     #!/bin/bash

Reviewer: the shebang doesn't make a lot of sense here (since we don't tell user to put this into a file) 

we can probably split these into separate code blocks like:

```
    ```
	cmd1
    ```

    ```
	cmd2
    ```
```

Reviewer 2: done

        --member=serviceAccount:${PROJECT}-compute@developer.gserviceaccount.com \
        --role=roles/run.invoker
    gcloud beta run domain-mappings --platform managed --region us-central1 create --service=hello --domain hello-direct.cloudrun.pomerium.com

    # Rewrite policy file with unique 'hello' service URL
    HELLO_URL=$(gcloud run services describe hello --platform managed --region us-central1 --format 'value(status.address.url)') envsubst <policy.template.yaml >policy.yaml

    # Install your base configuration in a Google Cloud secret
    gcloud secrets create --data-file config.yaml pomerium-config --replication-policy automatic

    # Grant the default compute account access to the secret
    gcloud secrets add-iam-policy-binding pomerium-config \
        --member=serviceAccount:${PROJECT}-compute@developer.gserviceaccount.com \
        --role=roles/secretmanager.secretAccessor

    # Deploy Pomerium with policy and configuration references
    gcloud run deploy pomerium --region us-central1 --platform managed --allow-unauthenticated --max-instances 1 \
        --image=gcr.io/pomerium-io/pomerium:v0.10.0-rc2-cloudrun \

>         --set-env-vars VALS_FILES="/pomerium/config.yaml:ref+gcpsecrets://${PROJECT}/pomerium-config",POLICY=$(base64 policy.yaml)

Reviewer: fwiw you can separate different envs into different args (you can repeat this arg)

Reviewer 2: 👍

![Hello Direct Access](https://storage.googleapis.com/gcp-community/tutorials/cloud-run-with-pomerium-for-end-user-access/hello-direct.png)

You should see a 403 error, because you don't have the proper credentials.

### Authenticated Access

1.  Go to [`https://hello.cloudrun.pomerium.com`](https://hello.cloudrun.pomerium.com).

    You should see a sign-in page:
    
    ![Hello sign-in](https://storage.googleapis.com/gcp-community/tutorials/cloud-run-with-pomerium-for-end-user-access/hello-signin.png)

1.  Enter your credentials at the sign-in page.

    After you enter your credentials, you should see a hello page:

    ![Hello](https://storage.googleapis.com/gcp-community/tutorials/cloud-run-with-pomerium-for-end-user-access/hello-success.png)

### Applications not running on Google Cloud

If your target application is not running on Google Cloud, you can also perform your own header validation.

Go to [https://httpbin.cloudrun.pomerium.com](https://httpbin.cloudrun.pomerium.com/headers).

You should see your identity header set:

![Hello](https://storage.googleapis.com/gcp-community/tutorials/cloud-run-with-pomerium-for-end-user-access/headers.png)

> See [getting user's identity](https://www.pomerium.com/docs/topics/getting-users-identity.html) for details on using this header.

Reviewer: maybe at the end, add a `What's Next` section linking to

- pomerium website/config docs
- pomerium's own Cloud Run recipe page.

Reviewer 2: 👍
